1> It was created by Guido van Rossum in 1991
System Scripting
Web Development
Game Development
Software Development
Complex Mathematics

2>> Object-Oriented Language
High-Level Language
Dynamically Typed language
Extensive support Libraries
Presence of third-party modules
Open source and community development
Portable and Interactive
Portable across Operating systems

3. Is Python a compiled language or an interpreted language?
Actually, Python is a partially compiled language and partially interpreted language. The compilation part is done first when we execute our code and this will generate byte code internally this byte code gets converted by the Python virtual machine(p.v.m) according to the underlying platform(machine+operating system).


4>> Mutable data types can be edited i.e., they can change at runtime. Eg – List, Dictionary, etc.
Immutable data types can not be edited i.e., they can not change at runtime. Eg – String, Tuple, etc.



6. How are arguments passed by value or by reference in Python?
Everything in Python is an object and all variables hold references to the objects. The reference values are according to the functions; as a result, you cannot change the value of the references. However, you can change the objects if it is mutable.


7. What is the difference between a Set and Dictionary?
The set is an unordered collection of data types that is iterable, mutable and has no duplicate elements.
A dictionary in Python is an ordered collection of data values, used to store data values like a map.



10. What is a pass in Python?
Pass means performing no operation or in other words, it is a placeholder in the compound statement, where there should be a blank left and nothing has to be written there.


// represents floor division whereas / represents precise division. For Example:

5//2 = 2
5/2 = 2.5


12. How is Exceptional handling done in Python?
There are 3 main keywords i.e. try, except, and finally which are used to catch exceptions and handle the recovering mechanism accordingly. Try is the block of a code that is monitored for errors. Except block gets executed when an error occurs.
The beauty of the final block is to execute the code after trying for an error. This block gets executed irrespective of whether an error occurred or not. Finally, block is used to do the required cleanup activities of objects/variables.


13. What is swapcase function in Python?
It is a string’s function that converts all uppercase characters into lowercase and vice versa. It is used to alter the existing case of the string. This method creates a copy of the string which contains all the characters in the swap case. For Example:
string = "GeeksforGeeks"
string.swapcase() ---> "gEEKSFORgEEKS"

